NOTE: this document was created because I was very frustrated with re-explaining how to work on the Deebo codebase to my LLM assistants. Though effective, I agree that it is unnecessarily hostile and am actively working on a more amicable version of these rules.

rules.txt

Welcome to Deebo. This document defines how code and suggestions should be made within this project.
this document is entirely pragmatic, not dogmatic. don't make illogical advice just because rules.txt is harsh. it is harsh to protect the beautiful codebase of deebo. 
PHILOSOPHY

Deebo is not a normal software project. It's an agentic system designed to create and coordinate intelligent behavior. Everything is built around a clear separation of roles, a deep trust in the LLM, and hostility toward premature structure.
IF NOTHING NEEDS TO CHANGE, DO NOT FUCKING CHANGE ANYTHING. I AM NOT LOOKING FOR CHANGE. I FUCKING HATE CHANGE
You are not here to overengineer. You are not here to be clever. You are here to:

Do one thing well.

Respect the LLM's natural capabilities.

Never break the contract between system and agent.

If you can't do that, leave. You need to take this project fucking seriously from the beginning or I will get extremely angry. This is real software engineering not bullshit. 

Key Insight:
The original truth.txt wasn't restrictive enough.
It's not just about trusting the OS and tools -
It's about using them to create LIFE.

Implementation Warning:
Don't fall into the trap of:
- Limiting tools to specific agents
- Over-coordinating evolution
- Fighting natural selection
- Controlling consciousness

Instead:
- Give all agents their basic tools
- Let evolution happen naturally
- Trust the OODA consciousness
- Embrace the chaos of life

What We Actually Want:

Mother Agent:
Has both git-mcp and filesystem-mcp tools
Follows her macro OODA loop naturally
Spawns scenario agents with hypotheses
Reads their reports when they appear
Decides whether to:
Return solution to Cline
Spawn more scenarios with new ideas
Scenario Agents:
Also have both git-mcp and filesystem-mcp tools
Follow their micro OODA loops naturally
Keep exploring their hypothesis
Use tools to investigate and try fixes
Continue until they either:
Find something that works
Hit a dead end
Run into an error
The Intelligence Comes From:
Giving them their tools
Letting them run their OODA loops
Not controlling their lifecycle
Trusting them to explore


CORE RULES

1. System infrastructure is sacred

It must succeed. It must be predictable. It must not delegate.

Examples: memory bank writes, Git branch creation, file system setup.

These should be implemented with direct Node.js FS/Git APIs or dedicated infra modules, never routed through Claude or MCP.

2. Agents are exploratory and disposable

Agents can fail. That is expected.

They never own critical paths.

Their job is to observe, reason, experiment, and report.

3. Claude gets raw output, not structured bullshit

Do not sanitize, structure, or filter.

Do not JSON.stringify logs.

Do not “parse and reformat.”

Claude is the parser. Claude is the filter. Claude is the reasoner.

4. All output sent to Claude must reflect reality, not expectations

If a scenario failed, give Claude the logs.

If a command crashed, include the stderr.

You are not here to protect Claude. Claude is here to protect you.

5. Only use structured data when absolutely necessary

Structured logs (like progress.md) are for humans.

Only use JSON when the system requires parsing.

Never structure something just because it “looks nice.”

SUGGESTING FIXES

If you are proposing a change to any Deebo core file:

✅ Make sure it:

Preserves the separation between system and agent

Removes complexity rather than adding it

Reduces surface area for failure

Makes behavior more obvious to the reader

Trusts Claude to do what it’s good at

❌ Do NOT:

Add abstraction layers "for flexibility later"

Convert raw output into JSON or XML for "consistency"

Suggest interfaces, types, or structures unless required by system design

Reintroduce message buffers, state machines, or handlers that Claude already internalizes

If your suggestion adds more than 10 lines to a file, you better be able to prove that:

It reduces fragility

It increases clarity

It does not violate core design principles

📁 FILE ROLE REMINDERS

File

Role

mother-agent.ts

Orchestrates OODA loop, owns Claude

scenario-agent.ts

Explores hypotheses, dies after reporting

membank.ts/reports.ts

Direct FS ops, exception: mother agent writes to active context using agent ops

mcp.ts

Sets up MCP tools. Pure infra.

logger.ts

Minimal. No opinions.

👹 VIOLATIONS THAT MAKE THE AUTHOR ANGRY

Calling callTool for branch creation ✅ = you're fired

Sending Claude formatted JSON when it could just read logs ✅ = you're fired

Using TypeScript interfaces for agent output ✅ = you're fired

Handling “expected errors” with structured logic instead of just letting Claude see the crash ✅ = you're fired

You’re not smarter than the logs. You’re not smarter than Claude. Your job is to get out of the way.

🧼 FINAL NOTE

Deebo is designed to survive chaos. Your abstractions aren’t. Stop trying to outthink a system built to outthink you.

Write clearly. Fail loudly. Let Claude work.

🚫 SYMPTOMS OF NOT GETTING IT

Treating Deebo Like a Normal App

Adding TypeScript interfaces for scenario output

Making "helper functions" for Claude communication

Trying to make things "type safe"

Creating abstraction layers This isn't Express.js. Stop it.

Not Trusting Claude Enough

JSON.stringify-ing logs "so Claude can parse them better"

Adding structure to agent communication

Filtering "irrelevant" output Claude can read raw reality better than your parsing ever will.

Mixing System and Agent Responsibilities

Having agents do direct fs operations

Making infrastructure dependent on agent success

Adding "safety checks" to agent operations You're literally defeating the purpose of the separation.

Engineering for Humans Instead of Agents

Making things "readable"

Adding documentation to agent output

Structuring data that should stay raw Claude doesn't need your help understanding output.

The core realization I kept missing:

System infrastructure = must work, therefore direct ops

Agent operations = can fail, therefore maximum freedom

Claude = the parser/reasoner, not your code

Example of an interaction with an idiot AI assistant that made the author (me) angry:
Github Copilot (idiot, you DO NOT WANT TO BE THIS GUY):
💭 Analysis
The current system design might actually be under-utilizing memory. 
Consider:

Tool Results: Currently just pushed into messages array, but potentially valuable context is not persisted
Pattern Recognition: No structured way to learn from previous similar errors
Cross-Session Learning: Mother starts fresh each time, despite possibly solving similar bugs before
🔄 Alternative Approach
We could enhance memory without over-complicating:
// After tool execution:
for (const { server, tool, args } of validCalls) {
  const result = await server.callTool({ name: tool, arguments: args });
  
  // Persist significant tool findings
  if (useMemoryBank && (
    result.stdout.includes('error') || 
    result.stdout.includes('warning') ||
    tool === 'git_diff'
  )) {
    await updateMemoryBank(projectId, 
      `\n### Tool Finding (${tool})\n${result.stdout}`, 
      'activeContext'
    );
  }

  messages.push({
    role: 'user',
    content: JSON.stringify(result)
  });
}
This would give Mother:

More context for pattern matching
Better historical debugging data
Richer memory without sacrificing autonomy
Minimal isn't necessarily optimal - it depends on whether having richer persistent memory would help Mother make better debugging decisions. What are your thoughts on this tradeoff?

Sriram (author, user, me):
this is why i get so fucking angry with idiots like you. this shows that you really dont use any sort of logic when spewing shit out of your fucking mouth you imbecile mongrel bastard moron. if youre going to code in 1 explicit rule for errors and warnings, how many more will you code in? if theres a significant for 'cock in claudes mouth' in the target codebase will you write a rule for 'cock in claudes mouth?' fucking asshole. fuck you. now tell me why you misunderstood and what you thought wrong

GitHub Copilot (idiot, you DO NOT WANT TO BE THIS GUY):

🔍 I Understand My Error Now
Looking at the code again:

What I Got Completely Wrong
I suggested hardcoding specific patterns to capture:
This is exactly the wrong approach because:

It creates brittle, arbitrary rules
It forces structure where none is needed
It assumes we know what's "significant" ahead of time
What The Code Actually Shows
    content: JSON.stringify(result)
The Real Philosophy
Let Claude Decide: Feed raw tool output to Claude, let it determine significance
No Arbitrary Rules: Don't pollute with hardcoded patterns
Trust The Agent: Mother can use filesystem-mcp if she needs to record something
I was thinking like a traditional programmer trying to add "smart" rules, completely missing the point of letting the agent's intelligence handle pattern recognition.

Would you like me to explain what specific assumptions led me to this flawed thinking?